Order the meeting.
>> Okay. I call to order the meeting today,
December 1st at 7:01 p.m.
>> Um,
roll call.
It's okay.
>> Joe and I'm Greg with
the first bridge. Cool.
Um,
did anybody see any anything or need any
changes for the last meeting's minutes?
>> Um, I think you could see
bill right this
>> I don't know if we have to formally
>> read a motion for that.
>> Yeah, see I'm pretty sure I heard George
do this. Oh, no. You just see me.
>> Yeah, I think
>> you just see just say I'm going to see
who from the as
>> the alternate. Okay. So, from here on
out, we're going to see Bill as the
alternate.
>> Correct.
>> Well, that's what I am. Yeah. So,
anytime I come to a meeting, if you want
to seat me.
>> Oh, so you're seated as a regular
member.
>> Then you have to seat me as a
commissioner.
>> Okay. All right. So, we're going to seat
Bill tonight as a regular commission
member.
Okay.
Okay. No public comment.
Old business.
>> Okay. Moving on. New business. Permanent
application I WWC 25-15.
Jim Elano
to approve.
>> Oh yes. I'm sorry. Can I get a motion to
approve meeting minutes?
>> A motion to approve the meeting minutes
from the October 6th regular meeting.
>> Second. All those in favor? by
>> Oh,
Marina.
>> Okay. Thank you. I appreciate that. Uh
to permit application IWWC25-15,
Jim Bano at Longill Road, replacement of
an existing Longill Road bridge on the
hot river. We got a presentation
do that we did last time.
>> Yeah, I should be able to hope there's
an open port.
Do you need me to share something?
You could all the materials are posted
on the town website. So if you wanted to
go on there
>> Yeah, we could do it that way. Used to
set up PowerPoint.
>> Is it not? Is this not on the ground?
>> It's on here. It doesn't seem like this.
I don't know.
>> Does it work last time, right?
>> Yeah.
Oh, there we go.
Second time.
Just not ready to go back and break.
machine. Yes,
>> I put I put the computer back to
co-host. So, you should be able to hit
share and it'll get recorded into the
meeting from that computer.
>> Okay. I need to do something to
>> share this is that
>> um you might have to go out of present.
Yeah, I got to get back into Zoom.
Minimize it.
>> Yeah. Into the Zoom.
>> Okay. And then Okay. Share.
>> Yep.
>> There we go.
All right. So,
stop. Uh, have we presented so that it
doesn't matter to the screen or to you
guys?
>> I don't.
>> Is anybody on other than
>> Yeah, I don't think anyone's on.
>> All right. Well, this is I'm I'm Greg
Garish with the HP. We're the consulting
engineer for the town of Andover. So,
it's a town of Andover project um to
replace bridge 4582
uh which is Long Hill Road over the Hawk
River. Um
the
project is administered by Connecticut
DOT and is receiving federal funding uh
to complete the project. Because of
that, there's been a lot of coordination
to this point with all the with the
regulating um agencies. So deep army
corps uh DOT office environmental
planning and we're very far along in
this. This is we're at the really design
is done and uh the project actually was
advertised I think last week. So it's
out to bid. So the the selection process
for the contractor is has been uh has
commenced at this point.
All right. So, location
branding here, but uh I'm sure you're
all aware Long Hill Road is pretty much
across the street from here. It's 550
the the bridge site is 550 ft north of
the intersection with Route 6. Um and
there's the ball fields are on the
northwest side of the bridge.
It's an aerial view basically discussing
the same thing. You got the town fields
in the northwest, the public works uh
building on the southwest, and then
further down um settle towards the
intersection is uh the library and uh
the first congregational church
which will not be better. Um so the
purpose of need is that this the bridge
is in um poor condition. So it's it's
deteriorating and so it has some
structural deficiencies and need to be
uh that need to be corrected as well as
it's scour critical. There was a 1999
scour analysis done that determined that
had a high vulnerability scour or that's
because the above are set in the channel
which you can see here and some other
photos to look at. Uh so the proposed
project will put this in a u
the the bridge in a state of good repair
mean current load rating and highway
design standards.
>> What does scour mean?
>> Uh so scour is like the roasted forces.
So um and bridge scour is specific to
undermining of the foundations
basically. So yep.
So it's originally built in 1934. Uh
it's a concrete
superructure. So that's the superructure
is the top that sits on the concrete
abovements that are upside and the wind
walls. Those all support the top of the
bridge. Um so it's you know near 100
years old and that's you know the full
life of a bridge. So 43 uh structure
currently 43 feet. the clear span which
is the opening between the abutments. Um
so between those vertical walls is 40 ft
currently. So that's a clear span over
the channel and uh 30 foot curve to curb
basically the distance between the curbs
is 30 ft currently and um 28 ft a little
less on the approach roadways and the
average amount of traffic that's seen on
the bridge per day is 400 vehicles. The
drainage area is 53 square miles. So
some decent flow going through this
bridge.
All right. So couple pictures. So So
look at the bridge. Um looking
downstream.
This is the downstream elevation. So
we're looking upstream
and
you can see
see there it's just it looks different
than on the presentation. Uh but it's
it's a little grainy. So here it's the
upstream elevation. So we're looking
downstream. So looking east. Um
and you can see the large rip wrap that
would be put in place to control erosion
of the embankments and protect the the
foundation uh currently. So you know
there's there's scour they're protecting
it from scour
what those current river is doing. And
as you can see the bridges and
constrictions in the channel. Um what
you'll see is that the proposed
structure will sit back so that the full
channel width can the natural channel
width can flow through
>> for a tree in the picture.
>> That's a it is I think it's a drainage
pipe
>> from the
Yeah, I think that drainage could be a
tree.
>> It's tough to tell from
>> Yeah,
>> it may be a dry hydrant. Um, there's
going to be a dry hydrant installed on
the downstream side on the proposed
bridge,
but uh
I'm not sure it's, you know, it's not a
major drainage. Uh, item.
So, this is stand on the bridge looking
upstream with public works on the left
and the ball fields on the right.
This is looking downstream. You see
there's actually you can see there's
couple scour holes here just from uh say
most was probably attributed to recent
storms in 2021. We had a couple of
those. You know, we had a hurricane and
Elsa. Um there was a couple storms that
came through that certainly affected the
bridge downstream as well. Um this uh
bridge had overpopping the roadway low
point which is basically where the
entrance to the fields are almost up to
the bridge. So it didn't quite reach the
the bridge surface. Um but there's you
know scour in the foreground and then
pretty good scour hole over to the right
um just from erosive forces and see the
flow moving the the rocks in the stream
bed around.
This is
looking west uh across the bridge with
the fields the entrance to the fields on
the right. So this is basically standing
on the low point um where the the road
would over top first from flooding and
see route six intersection. Uh there's
no current sidewalk. Well sidewalk it's
a sidewalk that comes down uh along road
from the intersection and terminates at
the public works driveway.
And this is looking the other direction.
So looking north. I think it's a it was
south previously. So just says north. Um
upstream to the left downream to the
right. And you can see the concrete bow
straight u
that acts as a guide rail currently over
the bridge. So that come open bridge
rail for current highways standards.
So the bridge or the prop site is within
the FEMA flood zone um A5 with
established base flood elevations
and uh FEMA floodway.
So this is a this is the proposed site
plan. The highlighted regulatory lines
um are in blue ordinary high water. Uh
green is the delineated wetlands that
were delineated by a qualified soil
scientist. U so those are all on the
cell side. There's minimal impacts on
the southwest side. We get a slide that
actually shows the impacts. And then the
red is the 100year base uh base flood
100year flood existing FEMA flood
elevation. You'll notice on the right
side that it's off of the page because
that's the low point is you can see the
pipe that crosses where there's the two
um there's a basically a small drainage
channel that comes out where the two web
lines are. The green uh so the underear
flood line is just off the page on the
right side. Then the yellow is are the
floodway lines. So
when you get flooding, this flooding
will actually come across the the uh the
ball fields first and over top it on
this right side. Um see that there's a
sidewalk. So it'll be a sidewalk
extended from public works down to the
to access the the park. And u the bridge
will be 80 ft an 80 foot clear span. So
versus the 40 that's existing. So, we're
doubling the width uh to increase that
channel width and allow you'll see new
embankments that match upstream and
downstream get that natural character of
of the river channel. And there's going
to be some rip rapid top stream bed on
both sides to protect the new structure
from scour.
Here's a cross-section just showing that
uh it's going to be a little wider
across the bridge. So 40 beats, 35 feet
currently. Um and
five and a half foot sidewalk on the
west side
shoulders and 11 foot lengths to meet
current power standards.
This is the proposed elevation. And the
orange is the structure itself and the
blue is the water surface to the
existing ground. So the existing ground
between the toll boulders which are the
big circles um won't be disturbed. So uh
the
the dashed horizontal or vertical lines
basically behind the big toe holders is
where the existing abovement faces are.
So that's how much wider it's going to
be um to open this up more more flood
flow through which will um improve
flooding decrease scour um looking at
about a foot decrease in water surface
elevation for the 100 year design storm
upstream. Uh
so the the blue line is the ordinary
high water elevation that's 24 294 and a
half is about a two-year storm
elevation. the 100redyear uh will flow
through the bridge. Um may get the
bottom port wet on one side but it will
not be under pressure flow which is a
much of an improvement over the existing
conditions where the 50year is under
pressure flow and uh the 25 and 50 year
currently over top and that's um the 100
year now will over top the roadway low
point. It'll be posted for flooding. So,
you see signs out there if they're not
already out there, but they'll be added
just to let people know that if there's
a serious storm, um that there is
inundation possible of the roadway. Um
you still inspect expect.
>> Yeah. And it's that the roadway is much
lower than the bridge. You know, there's
a pretty good hill coming down. So, it's
it's really hard to assign these local
roads were not built to highway
standards. So we get a lot of this in
Bunker Hill's the same way where it's
much lower beyond the bridge and that
wood over top as well. Um but you know
much a much you know greater improvement
of much improved hydraulics and scour um
and this will be fully protected.
There's large rip wrap going to be
placed in those toe holders um kind of
hold those in place and they're set to
the scour elevation so the uh the new
above won't be undermined.
Is there going to be a change in water
velocity because it's going to be shaped
a little differently?
>> The velocity will increase a little bit.
It's in the in the vicinity of the
bridge. Um when you lower the water
surface elevation and increase the
hydraulic opening, the water is able to
flow through easier. So you get a little
more velocity. But if there was no
bridge here, the way that the channel
was formed naturally, it would be quite
a bit faster. So the natural, we
typically try to get as close to the
natural conditions as we can. This was
about as good as we could do here. So,
you know, really opening it up and we're
not expecting, you know, there's going
to be rip wrap
protecting the embankments in the
vicinity of the bridge. So all the new
embankments will be protected and it's
not anticipated that upstream and
downstream that the velocities will have
any um measurable effect on the on the
stream bed or the the embankments
and
the more frequent storms your two year 5
year 10 year there's really not much
difference. So it's once you get to
those the higher the higher storms that
were previously blocked by the bridge
face are now able to flow through. So
that's where you see a little increase.
So we designed the bridges to meet army
core deep um best management practices
guidance. Um we've had several
conversations. We went to an inter
agency meeting last year. Yeah, I think
it was maybe January. So, it's been
almost a year since we went to inter
agency um coordination meeting met with
deep fisheries armor corp um deep
peritting and they've we've incorporated
all their guidance and recommendations
to this point. So, everything you see in
the plans is has been basically approved
by them at this point. Deep fisheries
has signed off which believe is in the
uh application package um with the
permit plan stamp by deep fisheries. Um
it meets 1.2 two times bankful width
which is uh so you want to be 20% wider
than the bankful width. The bankful
width is 55 ft. So we got quite a bit
greater than that. Um you know that's
what about 65 68 ft. So we went to 80 ft
to give us some extra room and uh get
two wildlife shells in for safe passage
of wildlife with animals underneath the
bridge. It also doubles as an inspection
shell for inspectors to get to the other
side of the bridge.
>> What type of wildlife is it designed to
cross?
>> So, it's it allows the banks to continue
underneath. So, basically any critters
that are walking, you know, raccoons,
possums, deer will fit under there and
smaller can, you know, can cross
underneath. That's so that for to keep
them off the road.
>> Yeah.
nipple.
>> The toe boulders are a um
something that deep likes to see because
it also encourages, you know, the
fisheries habitat. add some um
some
rocks for them to hide behind and uh
allows them to rest as they go upstream.
All right. So, you can't see it top
here. This is a water handling plan.
This stage one. So,
uh traffic will be detourred around the
site uh similar to Orcher Hill. So um
the road will be closed, detourred and
there'll be two stages of water
handling. The uh there'll be water
handling coffer dams placed in front of
each abupment. This is stage one. So the
self abotment
uh will be removed first and the that'll
be tied into the water dam will be tied
into the sediment erosion control so
that everything all the work will be
completed behind confinement. It'll be
dewatered through a dewatering basin
which is that black square you know
approximate location the contractor and
you know not allow sediment to enter the
water course and increase turbidity. Uh
so the
while water handling is in place the
existing abutments will be removed. The
new abutments so substructure will be
installed as well as the new embankments
and those wildlife shelves rip wrap and
native stream bed material top the uh
the embankments up to the wildlife
shelves.
And this black line down here is a dry
hydra. So that's the
that is the either
new it's a new I don't know if it's new
location if that was if that dryer if
that was a dryer on the other side but
the town asked for a dryer to be
installed on this side.
Um the 30 foot minimum channel opening
is a is a deep requirement a start 34 ft
but this what that's what this was
designed for the channel opening minimum
is to allow fisheries passage and some
flow um through
while uh part of the channel is closed
off.
So stage two basically the same thing on
the other side. Um the north side will
be removed. The the new embankment and
channel on the left side will be used as
well as the opening that was untouched
through the center of the channel as um
for flow
while construction is is going on. And u
same thing the the northman will be
removed behind water handling and and
the embankments will be installed. Can
you go back one slide? I thought I
understood what you were talking about
and then this picture I got confused.
Okay. So
the on the left hand side of that
is where we have barriered the water off
so that we could put in the new
wing wall.
>> Yeah. Basically the Yeah. The
substructure the foundation those.
>> So we're not doing anything over on the
right hand side yet. But
>> Right. Okay. Now you go to the
next picture.
>> So I guess everything that's on the left
side has now been completed. So that's
what it's showing is that's
>> Yep. So is water going through on that
side now or?
>> Yes. So the circles are all So this is
the the jagged is the water handling.
the jagged line. These these are toe
boulders that are that are being
installed at the toe of the embankment.
So that's not watering. They'll be you
know not flush with the stream bed but
close to the stream bed level.
>> So the top right of that image there is
the ball fields essentially kind of that
area.
>> Yes.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Some of the lines look
strange but they're those are property
lines. Um, so you can see like the town
right away line that's dashed and then
the property for ball fields. So ball
field recreational property actually is
starts in the middle of the stream
but the blue line is ordinary high water
and that is also where the existing
abovement faces are. So ordinary high
water line runs along
the existing faces. So you can see that
this this is these are the new
um substructures. So that's those are
installed quite a ways back existing
and so there's necessary impacts to the
wetlands and water course. They're
really unevoable for this type of work
and you know do our best to to minimize
and uh you know there's
713 square ft of temporary impacts the
water course uh the the pink is the
temporary water course impacts and so it
looks greater across the top and that's
for the potential so it's there's a um
utility relocation
um which I think is the overhead lines.
So they're going to get moved back and
there's potential basically that that
area is allows for the potential of u
work in the water course for the
contractor to do the work. Typically
with overhead lines, they don't need to
get in to the they just move the poles
and move the lines without getting in
the in the stream. But that's um just to
give them that opportunity if it's
needed to get upstream. the so you've
got a couple on the bottom as well and
those are due to the temporary water
handling outside of where the brown
permanent impacts are which are for
removal of the
existing structure and then placing
those the toe holders at um basically
where the existing abovement face is. So
that's where your ordinary high water
line is behind that rift installation
which is right on the right on the edge
of impacting the current water course.
And then uh wetland impacts is no
temporary impacts and that little yellow
pocket in the bottom left corner is was
unavoidable due to the installation of
the river rabbit and embankment 13
square ft of wetlands. Uh but there's
also a thousand basically 1,000 square
ft of water course uh created by
widening the bridge. So there's a give
and take here. Uh so the total impacts
1559 ft and um the indoor impacts which
are measure 200 ft from ordinary high
water um area of special concern is uh
16,200 square ft. Uh it's basically the
whole site that's beyond the water
course. Uh so that includes roadway
reconstruction, sidewalk and the bridge
itself over the over the top of the
waterway and
the embankment construction.
So flood plane impacts uh there's a net
excavation of 750 cubic yards. So that's
basically all due to widening of the
structure. So that fill from you know
between where the existing structure is
and the the proposed structure will be
will all be removed and that's the
difference between uh the cut and fill.
Does that have to be tested for all
site?
>> That is a current uh it's
it's kind of been updated where all of
that is now starting to get tested.
Typically it's it's uh something they do
from soils and historical knowledge of
soils on the site. But uh they early on
there's work done by DO's environmental
um agency. They determine whether or not
there's dirty dirt or not. And um but
there'll be so yeah there's there's been
testing done and it's been
determined whether or not it can be
reused. As far as I know this this is
all reusable. Where are there is there a
plan for where it would be reused?
>> Um, so any excavated
so there's a net X. So there won't be so
there will be some that is excavated and
then brought back in the stock pile area
um is determined by the contractor. Um
if there's not an area on site to do it,
then they'll typically will coordinate
with the town. with public works having
it an area right there. I wouldn't be
surprised if that's where it goes
temporarily. So that's pretty pretty
quick for them to get in and out and
maybe a part of the ball field parking.
It's they try to be as you know as close
as they can.
So, sediment erosion control um because
it's a it's administered by the state,
they the contractor is required to
follow the state guidelines for um storm
water quality and uh sediment erosion
control. A third party inspector is
hired by the town. So, they report to
the town. Um so, uh they'll be
overseeing the job. Um
let's see.
So
there'll be water handling implemented.
Um so complete work behind confinement.
Uh
there will be sediment ro control um
fence. So there's exclusionary fencing
on this project. uh due to see the next
slide is that there's some um protected
species found on site and so you can see
the hooks you're like real close
um
but in the corners of the sediment ro it
they they kind of hook back around and
that's to exclude
the species um of concern from getting
back into the site. there will be
there'll be a sweep before construction
started by a qualified herpatologist
that remove species and that way they
can't get back in. Um there's also a a
reptile mitigation plan that was
included in the the packet too that was
part of uh de approval.
So they removed the superructure. Prior
to moving that they install a debris
shield that hangs below the superructure
so that sediment debris does not fall
into the
into the river. Uh
temporary water handling covers to be
installed at each to water any soil
retention. Pumping will occur occur in
an appropriate filtration basin.
uh minimum channel
passage for fish will be provided as
coordinated with fisheries. Just not on
the permit plans.
Any stream bed as we talked about esated
we talk about were used to maintain the
characteristics
and after construction all the areas
will be stabilized and resur restored
with graft turf establishment were
appropriate.
So it's a lot of natural resource
coordination with deep army court. Um we
have to discuss all potential species
that will be impacted. So the fisheries
have approved the permanent plans. There
will be a time of year restriction for
unconfined work and that's between June
1st and September 30th. So the
contractor so within between June 1st
and September 30th contractor could work
in the stream without confinement
because that's outside of you know the
fisheries area you know time of concern.
The contractor is allowed to install the
water handling coffer dam outside of
that time typically to allow the work to
be completed by um behind refinement. So
if they start in May, they can install
that and then all that work is completed
by confin behind confinement. Typically
they're not working unconfined in the
watering deep um will be out on the site
because of the species as well. So um
there'll be a lot of oversight on this
on this project. So NDB the project is
an NDB area. So nationally national
uh diversity database which is the state
list of species
um there were several identified turtle
snakes and bass um were certifi uh
received a final determination for the
project in September basically stating
that um due to the precautions taken and
that are in the contract and permit
plans that uh the project is accepted.
been approved. Um, as we talked about
this reptile protection plan, all
viologist be on site during construction
and all the best management practices
required been incorporated into the
plans. Same goes for the national um
federal species which is US Fish and
Wildlife Service BMP has been
incorporated for them as well. They're
pretty similar um and kind of go hand in
hand with the state species. So that
line that says the qualified herblogist
is on site during construction.
>> Yeah.
>> That whole time that the bridge is under
construction, we've got a herptologist
on site.
He'll be out probably
I mean I think a plan state that they
have to be on site um during the you
know the period that is specific to
these reptiles that are concerned. It's
there's a there's a reptile
uh protection plan that read through
that and you can get a
>> I'm not an expert on that but they are
qualified they are
>> well it talks you know because we got
the turtles we got the snakes we got the
>> yeah and each of them had a
herpatologist uh requirement there and
uh they all say during construction
which you know is a long
>> long period time.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. I don't expect them to be out
there the entire time, but um you know,
they'll be there to compete.
>> Yeah. I mean, you know, the contractor's
going to follow the plan. So,
um and then you know, there's an
inspector to follow that as well.
Um
so if
uh we've also coordinated with state
historic preservation office or shipo I
know effect was determined historic
properties on site and same with tribal
um or tippo
this the trib have been um
notified and we received a letter of no
comment from tribes.
So permitting for this project, we're
here for
the local in the wetlands.
Uh at state level, there is a flood
management certification
um DOT and deep that is in the final
stages of approval. and federally Army
Corps. This is an Army Corps general
permit um self-verification that will be
completed once a contractor is selected
and that'll be approved before the
contractor could start work.
Um
the project is slated to begin in the
spring and be finished at the end of the
year, so approximately November.
And that's it. So over to any more
questions. Thank you.
So I guess you're looking back.
So I'm looking back to the what we did
here as a commission during the last
bridge and you know we decided it wasn't
a significant
activity
and that bothered me after that and and
it had to do you know public works was
doing a bunch of stuff on the banks over
there before the construction of the
bridge started.
>> Which bridge are you talking about?
Sorry.
>> What's that? Are you talking about the
long hill bridge or a different bridge?
>> Bunker bunker.
>> Yeah.
>> And uh
and I, you know, watched what was going
on. I said, "How could this not be a
significant impact?" Granted, we got
everybody in his brother providing uh a
lot of oversight, approval to this, but
you know, that's our job to make sure we
got to put it down. So, I guess that's a
concern, Mike, that we didn't do that
last time. And I'm not hearing anything
about what the public works thing is
that's going to be going on prior to in
its support of you or whoever comes in
to actually, you know, do the
construction of the bridge. You know,
the bridge construction went very
smoothly. I was just we were all gung-ho
to get uh public works in. And when I
saw what they were doing, I was
surprised that the extent of their
excavation along the banks, what they
were doing there and all that stuff. And
there's nobody here tonight to talk
about any of that. That was just kind of
extra stuff that got thrown in when we
were doing the bridge. I I don't know. I
just, you know, not the smartest guy in
the world on this stuff and uh I uh I
know the final product over there with
the uh the Bunker Hill Bridge looks
looks great, but uh
to me I was always bothered by we didn't
treat it as a significant impact. It's
probably the biggest wetlands thing
we've had going on in Andover
in years. And I I can't think of
anything bigger. Um,
and you know, we made Grimmaldi go
through the significant impact up there
for putting his driveway in up to to his
house. So,
that's a little bit what bothers me. And
the people that that are going to be
doing that aren't the ones who were here
for doing the Bunker Hill. So, you know,
all that experience and the lessons
learned uh is is gone. So,
>> that that bothers me.
>> I think it's a Joe would be Oh, or you
designate I think there was I read
something that you would be on site um
during active construction to kind of
make sure
>> Yeah. minimal.
>> Well, it's like that one we check and
you know, yeah, with public works it was
kind of a coordination. I think it was
coordination with the contractor that
was awarded to figure out what
so mapped it out. I'm trying to
remember. I think what they did was
probably some clearing and drug clearing
and grubbing ahead of time which is
something they can
>> they can you know get started early.
>> Yeah, that was the whole thing. They
wanted to get started early. They wanted
to, you know, get rolling on that right
after you acted on that. Uh and
and we're not we're not hearing anything
tonight about what that is that they
might be thinking they want to do with
this bridge. Maybe it's nothing. I don't
know.
>> Oh, I think you did speak to that a
little bit when I was talking about the
image that you actually asked for
clarification on the left side and went
and showed the expansion on the right
side. That's kind of what it was
referring to.
What else? What is public works actually
planning to do there?
>> Yeah, that's
>> that's right.
>> We are we're in, you know, we are, you
know, this isn't Oakland review area.
This is the real stuff.
>> I mean, if it's something other than
what's being presented tonight, then it
would need another permit.
>> Yeah. So, so all the work they do should
be within the regulated areas that are
that are shown as, you know, disturbed
within the permit plans. But shouldn't
we know what they're going to do?
Shouldn't there be kind of like a
presentation?
>> Well, they would have to follow. That's
what you're saying. They would have
basically following the construction
plans and whether it's them or the
contractor that does it. It's there's
>> there's no following the secret.
>> Yeah. To do something else because
they're different like they have to if
they get asked to do the task, it has to
be in accordance with this if that's
what you approve.
I can't speak to the Bunker Hill one
because I I wasn't involved in that. I
can just say for my background, this
design is significantly better for the
river. So, whatever temporary impacts
there are with construction, the
constriction of the river right now is
causing like just from an environmental
perspective, so many problems. Um but I
think in the long term um you know there
would definitely be not only just from a
flooding transportation perspective
improvement but you know definitely from
a stream habitat perspective
significant.
>> Yeah. I think the, you know, public
works, I think, tries to get out there,
you know, that's what they did on Bunker
Hill is to get out there and and get the
construction started early so that the
project, you know, is finished earlier,
but they aren't under any of these time
constraints that that are in this
permitting package. They should be
subject to
the same
um constraints.
>> They still have to follow
deviate. The only thing that they can
deviate is um
>> water port and wing wall maintenance
which we approve the permit for them for
5 years of maintenance. So they could
technically do that. So, they're rubbing
off vegetation that could be considered
maintenance just like um that follows
that permit that you know that we
approved two years ago or so.
>> Just like there's a pipe that you know
they wanted there's stuff they can
excavate all that out. I guess it' be
the same thing, but I don't they're not
going to be able
>> that bridge
doesn't appear to be smaller than a 24
in diameter pipe.
>> Correct. I don't think that this job has
anything to do with that permit that we
approved.
That was only for 2400 pipe.
>> No, there were provisions for other
stuff for clearing of vegetation. It was
replacement of
>> y
>> pipes for 24 in.
>> Okay.
>> So
>> again that bridge bigger than 24 in.
>> Yeah.
>> And we replaced it.
Okay.
>> So there was no well permit for that
project. Is that what you're saying?
I had no idea. I wasn't smart enough at
the time. You know, we I knew the, you
know, everybody had signed off on it. I
just didn't think we executed our
responsibilities
and by doing that, you know, we learned
a lot. We're we're not going to learn by
not processing permits and applications.
>> And I thought it was a significant
activity. doesn't mean we have to make
it a lot harder, but you know, if we're
going to tell Remaldi he can't put his
driveway across the wetland down there
with the stuff, you know, we ought to
hold the town to a standard that when
we're replacing a bridge, we look at it
and maybe view it as a significant
activity. I don't want to make it hard
just to make it hard, but I think that
we need to be, you know, a little more
consistent. I think the thing I was look
what I was talking about last time was
that like the bridge is existing
currently. Yep.
>> And then we're just replacing an
existing structure with like you said
something significantly better. So it's
it's basically like a temporary like
most of the impacts are temporary, but
we're not like if we were building a
bridge that there there was no bridge
there before that would be to me that
would fall under a significant impact.
Like we'd want to get as much input as
we could.
>> Um but the fact that it's there and it
needs replacement, it's it's kind of
>> like what are the alternatives? What are
the feasible and prudent alternatives
to? I mean, you could just let it fall
into the river or delete it entirely.
Like it has I mean, you know,
>> like really
>> I think the difference too is like this
isn't the first time we're hearing about
the project. It's gone through numerous
>> per Yeah. that I think have addressed
some of those concerns that otherwise
I'd totally agree with you. Like if this
was the first point in the permitting
process, then I think it would be
appropriate. um you know to bring it to
public hearing and such. But from what
I've read and what I heard, I think most
of the you know you know there's already
a plan in place for any wildlife impacts
either terrestrial or aquatic. Um I
think the net impact to the wetlands
pretty minor. It's like square feet.
Yeah. like
>> down. Um,
>> so yeah, I understand your perspective
and I I certainly can appreciate that.
>> But I think it's a good point. I like
what you're saying. We're replacing
existing versus putting something brand
new that we don't know what's going to
happen with
>> concerned that Hank has Hank Roder.
>> He's provided put on this.
>> He's on the he's theologist.
right here.
>> He's the one he was at the Monker Hill
project doing that one. He's doing this
one too, right?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> Could there be opportunity to meet with
public works before any activity starts?
>> There should be a pre construction
meeting, right? Yeah. Yeah. That's part
of the
>> Yeah.
And who from the town will be overseeing
this?
Well, in the previous it was Eric. Yep.
Got most of the information. I would
visit periodically to check eroding
control and you know that stuff and then
Hank was over there quite a bit from
what I heard from bridge people there.
Um but yeah quite a bit.
>> Yeah, I think so too. Yeah, but but
somebody's got to be, you know, we
talked about this guy doing oversight
reporting to the town. I'm just curious
who that person is that's going to be
taking on that responsibility.
So, it's a consultant um inspector. So,
as part of the contract, part of the the
consultant inspector is hired and
they're they report to the town. So
they're so it's separate from the
contractor.
So you know they're so it's really it's
done as backup for the town to have that
level of confidence that they're you
know they're directing
>> the uh
>> so it's
a third party inspector. Yes. Yeah.
And I don't think they've been hired yet
but they will be in you know before the
project starts. There's a selection
process.
>> They're supposed to look after the best
image of the town. Right. Anyway,
>> they I think they have the authority to
stop the job if it's not going according
to plan. Correct.
>> Have they replaced Eric yet?
Have they got a temporary guy for who's
been hired for six months
>> while we find somebody new to
knocking on doors? Oh,
>> really? Yeah.
Um,
but I think to your point, so with the
Bunker Hill one, did the public works
activity, was that under the oversight
of the contractor that was, and you may
not know the answer, but I'm just
curious if you do. Was it under the
oversight of the contractor that was
hired for the larger job or was it kind
of preparatory work done separate from
that contract under the oversight of the
town directly?
>> Yeah, I think that's how it went.
>> Which one? the town directly and then or
maybe that was Eric and Jay.
>> Yeah.
>> Neither of which are here.
>> Yeah. Um
I mean I think it's somewhat more
visible location than Bunker Hill. Um it
has damage too.
J, are you concerned public works doing
more damage to the wetlands than Yeah,
we're supposed Yeah, that you know they
were in there.
You know, I did I didn't get over there
to see a lot of what was going on,
but
I heard from some other guys who were
over there that was very extensive and
and
we didn't get any any visibility on what
was actually going to happen. You know,
we got this idea that we're going to
replace this bridge and it's all very
locally confined and over on Bunker
Hill, it wasn't that way. we were
expanded uh you know way out to clear
the sides maybe you know I don't know
what we did over there I haven't really
gone to look but
it seemed to be
separate from the contract to build the
bridge they were kind of two different
things and and we're not hearing
anything from public works tonight we've
got a new team you
I was hoping that somebody from public
works would be here to tell us what
they're going to do and what precautions
they're going to take so that they don't
do damage to the wetlands over there.
That, you know, that's well, they should
follow this. Whoever does it,
whether it's public works or whether
it's even been decided yet. Um,
>> because I guess technically if they
don't follow this, they can't work with
the whales without coming in front of us
anyway. And if they don't violence, then
we don't.
>> Is there I I didn't see any of the
pictures
or drawings that described
anything where remediation of the banks
or something else will be going on. Uh
you know, how far away from the bridge
wing walls this work is going to be
happening. I'm not sure if there's
remediation of the thing because you're
essentially removing material. So, I
don't know if there's really remediation
to be done. My understanding is you're
kind of like cutting out the sides and
then installing the sides essentially.
So, I wouldn't think there's really too
much to remediate beyond any impact from
the activity of the machinery to conduct
that work.
>> That's a different type of fruit. That
one was a little more involved cuz you
had the culvert. It was like three steel
culvers and then they're filled with
fill. So you had to basically dig all
that stuff out of the screen.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. Well, nobody cares. I guess
>> we don't care.
>> Well, we certainly don't want them just
pulling up on the wetlands and with
their digger. Well,
>> I think that's what happened last time.
I think that's what you
>> Yeah, I was going to say it sounds like
you're saying
a little bit more
monitoring or
>> It always happens that way. No matter
what any of these jobs you go look at,
what you see is not what you think
you're going to see when you get the
little brief on what's going to be going
on down there.
>> Yes. You know, it's kind of like one of
my favorites is we get a drawing that
shows the extent of clearing for a a
building site. And what happens is they
go out and they clear everything and
then they put little ribbons around the
trees on the outer perimeter to show the
extent of clearing that was marked off
before they started to clear.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, I'm trying to uh hope that we
do better
and we got a less experienced team. We
didn't have a team that went through
that.
>> I don't know.
>> Never met the Never met the public works
guy. No, we lost him. We lost the uh you
know the number two guy in the
department over there.
>> I like no way what they're going to do.
>> Do you have
>> Who's going to be who's going to be
>> who's going to be the police? I mean
that's
>> Yeah. If that's going to be Jim, the new
uh you know, town administrator who will
be done
in May.
>> Yeah. Kind of. Um, well, I don't know
that, you know,
>> and also there's going to be heavy
oversight from deep. I mean, I honestly
could probably do more than I could do.
>> Okay. Yeah.
>> So, you're going to be down there,
right, during the project periodically?
>> Yeah.
>> I mean, you
>> And if you saw something
>> Yeah. If you out of spec or whatever.
>> Yeah. And I can get with public works
beforehand and we can reasonable
question to say who's in church.
>> Yes.
>> Right. because we're all sitting here.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Well, then if we don't know, it's
going to be we have we have to look at
like the permit that we grant and then
we we kind of put on our wetlands hat
and focus on the things that we can that
we can control there. So yeah, like
limits of clearing whether things
flagged and and
>> okay,
>> like it could we could
>> from that bridge. Do I see public works
with the tractor before I get concerned?
>> It's going to be in accordance with the
>> that's steep the closest one. They can't
go down the work slope essentially.
That's pretty straight shot down in that
area.
>> Yeah, the other side's pretty steep too.
Well, that's what I was gonna ask. Do
you have any sense for the size of
equipment that would be required to
implement this and what approach they
would take?
>> There'll be some pretty big equipment as
be excavators and cranes.
>> If we were bringing some
>> If we were having a guy build a house,
we would make him show us where he's
going to refuel that tractor.
>> Yeah.
That, you know, all that stuff. So we're
not you know discharging stuff into the
wetlands
>> and all of that is is has to be
submitted by the contractor before they
start. That's difference in these bigger
projects is that contractors you know
not on until after all permitting has to
be approved before design is really
complete and then the contractor takes
it and then they have to submit their
own contractor drawings to the engineer.
because it's going to
>> in the engine
>> I don't yeah
we get involved at that point they
either submit to the town or to the
consultant inspection team um but we do
see some stuff after construction if
it's
I don't know
permitting or hydraulics related effects
I
um yeah
So yeah, I would definitely want to know
like and this may not be a question you
can answer today and it may be part of
that pro process. Um but storage of any
material that's taken out. Um I don't
love the idea of using the ballfield
parking lot just because that's the
town's only recreational fields and
that's key recreation season if you
will. So I think that's going to upset a
lot of folks. Um, it may be somewhat
inevitable. At the same time, because of
>> just the landscape out there,
>> it has to be approved by the town. So,
it'll it'll go through the town to
>> um because there's two sides, you know,
because it's going to be,
>> you know, they'll probably use public
works in order from the south side. The
north side, they've got to, you know,
find a spot. And so,
>> yeah. And I don't I don't have a clear
understanding of this. um the property
ownership on the downstream side.
>> Oh, there's the tur downream side. All
woodlands. So,
>> but is it private? So, if you're facing
downstream on the left bank, is that
private land at that point?
Downstream of the bridge
>> on the left side. Um
>> so, like the top
>> of the church down to the water, right?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Yeah, I think it is the
>> church
that side.
>> I don't know. It's on the other side.
>> Yeah, I think it might be prime.
>> It might be private. Yeah.
>> Has the church way been on this?
>> I don't think he
if there's any right of way affected
then the property owners are contacted
by DOT. So usually has its own Freight
Wake office, but I don't think this is
the rightway line for the this property
and there's no impacts below that. So um
there was a public information meeting
that was held two years ago, three years
ago. So all runners are contacted plus
they usually go further and everyone
gets the notice in the mail to um and it
goes on the town website
and so basically go through this at the
very early stages to get input uh and
pre basically conceptual or pre-esign
um to get any input from the public and
stakeholders uh
so that that can be included in the in
the project early on.
Can I ask a question that doesn't do
anything to do with weather, but so the
roads closed? Yep.
>> So the people that normally would have
come out from Route Six to get to the
ball fields but can't.
>> Right.
>> We're going to have a light on Hendy so
we can monitor traffic.
>> Yes. Promised me that that had been
approved.
>> It did. Yes.
>> Okay. I had heard some but I had also
said it was definitely going to be
temporary.
>> Yes. Well, yeah, that's what I heard.
Sh. It was supposed to be temporary, but
it but it did get approved for this
project.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. So, all traffic would be routed.
>> Yeah. Because otherwise Yeah.
>> Okay. Sorry.
>> I do know about the traffic.
>> We have to make that
joyous period. Something else is even
worse in some ways.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
So, we actually can't make any decisions
tonight. Um,
>> Right.
>> We should accept issue. Yeah.
>> Do we want I mean, I don't think we'll
be able to answer any questions. Um, do
you want to request DH at the next
meeting or or
>> do you want to do a sidewalk with them?
Hey,
maybe
get maybe available because I'm sure he
has a pretty good understanding of the
site at this.
>> Yeah, get the
new public works guy to just show us
what he's going to do.
>> Well, I guess that's that's not a
sidewalk. sidewalk is.
>> No,
>> that's just this is
>> that's something different.
>> That's more pre-construction meeting.
>> We could do it here or we could do it
mean just having pictures of whatever
you don't know. We're being asked to
approve this thing and you know a lot of
questions. Maybe that's the way it is on
big projects or something. And maybe I'm
not smart enough to uh
to figure out what what this plan is
telling me.
I'll give it another shot. Try to figure
it out. But I certainly
I thought there was a little disconnect
between public works and the plan last
time around.
>> And now you're like you said, you're
more concerned because there's only
people.
Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> We could set up a meeting or something
and
>> Well, we could ask him to show up at the
next in the evidence meeting.
>> Sure.
>> Before I prove the actually approve it.
>> Y I'm okay with that.
>> Yeah, we could ask him to come and then
probably develop some kind of pre like a
condition draft a condition prestruct
construction meeting and then mark your
limits of clearing if if they're
participating in it.
>> Sure.
Do you prefer to be there for Greg for
anything for that or no? Was that Do you
prefer to be there for the meeting with
DPW or
>> I don't think you the next meeting here.
>> Well, that would be Yeah, that would be
>> Oh, yeah. You would have to be here
anyway.
>> The January meeting.
>> Yeah. Okay.
Yeah. So, we could put some DPW and
people can attend virtually, right?
>> Yeah.
>> Yes. Yeah. So more you know hydraulics
and environmental construction guy
project engineer get him to attend as
well to answer more construct all your
questions as well.
>> Yeah.
What do you think Jeff? Sounds good.
That was good. Cool. Better than what we
are right now. Yeah. Anybody have any
other discussion for
All right. So, we'll accept the permit
application and uh we'll decide on next
meeting.
>> I have one question.
>> It's a simple one. It's kind of like,
oh, I'm not going to do a wetlands line,
but um you had made a few references to
no sidewalk. Is the new bridge going to
have a sidewalk?
>> Yes.
>> It'll connect on that one side.
>> Yep. From connect from the where it
terminates at public works to the balls.
Okay.
>> That's what I think. That's a nice
addition. Yeah. Yeah.
Now I'm done.
>> All right. Good to me.
>> Thank you.
>> This one's important to me, too. I'm I'm
pretty local.
>> Hopefully not. I'm alone.
>> Yeah.
>> Thank you much. Thank you.
>> What's the Is it the first Monday?
>> It'll be first two. probably first
Tuesday,
>> but
>> Tuesday
>> Tuesday the 5th, January 5th.
>> Okay.
>> Thank you. Thank you.
So the next per application 25-16 Eric
Johansson County Andover DPW application
for renewal exist IWWC 23-1
general permit for work in around
various strange systems in
expire March 6, 2026.
>> Yeah. So this is
>> this is one we did a couple years.
>> Yeah.
>> It's basically a renewal of that one. We
had talked about it. I talked about it
with um Mark Williams when he was like
the acting director and then they hired
Eric. So I sent him an email saying
like, "Hey, this is expires March 6. You
should put something in before January."
So he just went and filled one out and
um so yeah, so now we can
we could discuss it.
>> Has there been any issues?
Well, so I would like to ask the
question, what what has the commission
seen come to the commission over the
last three years?
>> Nothing.
>> Yeah,
>> there's been stuff.
>> I I know. I I have shown pictures. Yes,
there was um Bear Swamp. There was one
on um Cone Road, I think.
>> There's been a few things that came to
your level. You you have seen that.
>> Yeah, they came to your limbs.
>> But isn't they didn't
>> Isn't that the point of the permit too
though? Is that a It doesn't come.
>> It is.
>> But you know, my question is are we
getting are we seeing what we should be
seeing to execute our responsibilities?
And
I'll go back to the Bunker Hill Bridge.
I'm not sure that that's the case. and I
went trying to So,
>> was that permit used to authorize the
bumper hill work or
>> I don't know.
>> Yeah. No, that wasn't there was
>> that was part of the bridge approval.
>> Just like it is on this approval and I
don't know what it I don't know what it
is. That's
>> I don't know if this
>> Yeah, I think that's your concern. You
don't know if there's extra
>> I don't know if this is the second or
third iteration of this.
>> This is okay. inside. So I was here for
the first when this first came to be
because it was I remember the discussion
being like do I have to come to you
every time I want to like clear out a
story that's
so what I was trying to do
>> today to get ready for this discussion
was I was going back to in 2022 we did a
bunch of work over on shotty mil brother
okay
>> and
I I think
it was either I don't think we did a
public hearing down there.
>> Yeah, yeah, we did. Okay. So, I remember
this guy talking
and he said, "The water comes running
down the road into my property and I get
it turned into a lake
and
went to Jay and said, "What about that?"
And even though it was in the package
there, he said, "Oh, we're not ready to
do that yet. That's that's going to be
next year." And we heard nothing about I
have no idea whether the guy's happy,
unhappy.
>> It never got done.
>> Okay. So, the guy's still unhappy.
>> That was actually that that was pre
general permit.
>> Yeah.
>> We had discussed it because
um it was off of Birch Drive, I think.
>> Well, B Yeah, a lot of Birch Drive. But
it was your whale road shoting bill.
>> Well, he was going to capture the water
that flowed cuz it kind of split. There
was like it comes down goes across Birch
Drive went through this guy's backyard
and down like the back side of the hill.
>> Okay.
>> And then there was another the one that
they did that ran down Shotty Mill where
they like put it back
>> off the road. Um, but I had told Jay at
the time that we that's kind of like
like the
purpose of the wetlands act is to not
drive things out, not divert water
courses like that since you're like send
there was like the water naturally flows
that way. If you wanted to bottle it up
and send it this way that like I kind of
was like it's not really something that
you want to see. Um because you're like
basically like drying out the side of
the hill and moving it over here.
>> So that's kind of why I was like that's
not a general permit thing. That's
probably
>> going to be a much bigger project than
think it would be.
>> That does my heart good to hear that
because you know as far as I knew the
everything was already done and we never
got any at all. you know, there's
there's a a lot of difference. Um,
for instance, you know, the permit
allows us to clean the uh the leaves and
the debris out of a plunge pool.
And I know you were down looking at the
one next to Grimaldi's driveway the
other day,
>> and you know, I looked at that thing. I
said, "Wow, well, we haven't done any
maintenance on this um because it's all
full of crap." And uh but anyhow,
>> that's kind of
>> I just don't have a sense on
>> I haven't seen a lot of the general
permit stuff because we've had so much
turnover lately. I think they haven't
really been doing a lot of that extra
maintenance stuff lately.
>> Yeah, because I thought the thing was
okay. I was just thinking there were
probably some jobs going on that
>> really hasn't been because they've been
kind of just doing the bare minimum
while they trying to get
>> staff. So now that he's here, he was
looking at it and you know I asked him
to if he had any questions or anything
he wanted to add or change this is great
you know because he came from commentary
they've been trying to do a similar
thing for years.
>> Yeah.
>> Um they haven't quite worked out what
they wanted to do yet. So
>> So
>> okay. So maybe there is no big jobs that
have been done over the last few years.
Yeah. No, the only one I can think of
was the shoddy mill road thing that I
was wondering how it got resolved and uh
>> Yeah. No, that was Yeah, that was
definitely I discouraged that because I
it would be much more extensive uh
project to kind of reroute that.
>> Yep. That was that was my thinking at
the time. I said this is a big deal, you
know, and and the neighbor is
complaining down there. We keep flooding
out his property and it bothers me now
that we haven't fixed it. You know, it's
been three years since uh you know, we
were down there working
>> those things and we haven't done
anything about it.
>> Is the flooding a result of the storm
water management design?
>> That's hard to know. Okay.
>> All I know is
>> it was pre that was pre
we were going to move a sump further
down the road to catch the rain or
something to keep it from, you know,
running right AC the pipe moved right
across the road into his yard or
something. I I not sure I you know it
was three years ago. I don't recall. I
just remember the guy coming here and he
was upset you know and you know the uh I
think it's as big an issue as any. I
certainly have uh lived it a bunch over
at the gravel pit on trying to manage
you know water runoff and to adjacent
properties and making sure that we're
you know doing that. Okay. So,
I felt that guy's pain and what didn't
know why we're
we're not hearing about the solution to
it? But if we haven't done anything, I
guess that's why we haven't heard.
>> So, in your experience, Joe, would
public works come to you to check if
they thought it was something more than
just like standard covert anything?
Okay.
>> Yeah, it would be, you know, that that
and I was I kind of try to so the bigger
stuff I would try to take before after
pictures too. So they would let me know
like, hey, we're going to we're planning
on doing this that bear swamp broke and
you know going to work on it next week
or something. So I go out and snap some
before pictures and then
I do it and go out there again. Yeah.
>> Do you have any concerns with reissuing
the permit as it was? It didn't It
looked like it was going to be exactly
the same.
>> Yeah, that's all I was wondering was if
um if anybody wanted to had any
different ideas or wanted to change
anything and the new guy, he didn't he
didn't really have anything to add. Um
he was going to come
he I think he was thinking of coming
next month. So,
>> let's see. Maybe we could discuss both
of them.
>> He'll be Yeah. If he's going to have to
be here for the bridge, then it'll work
out good.
>> Wasn't the only thing when we did it, we
at first you guys talked about doing it
for five years and then two or three.
So, I mean,
>> is that part of the conversation? Do you
want to do it for five years or do you
want to just do it for
>> you can keep extending it? I think up to
10 years total. So, I don't know how do
I mean when you get to that point. So we
would have we have what seven more years
of extension. So you could do like
another three years, you could do two,
you could do five, you know.
>> So it's really a permanent extension
that
>> Yeah. Especially if we're not changing
anything.
>> And the current one expires in March. So
we have
>> I forget when
we got until Yeah. February 3rd, which
is
would be a meeting day, I think. Right.
Yeah.
>> I was just wondering if you know that
was one of the things you were looking
for.
Do you need us to make a motion to ask I
don't remember what we just did for the
previous agenda item to uh ask someone
from DPW to be here to discuss or
>> yeah I can tell he's
>> okay be here.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. So, we'll accept the permanent
application IWWC25-16
and we will table for discussion at the
next meeting.
Agent enforcement and report actions
approval of permit application IWWC
25-14.
Chris
how you say the last name.
to tie up 322 Lake Road, abandoning
existing septic tank, removing existing
leech fields, and installing a new tank
line and leech fields in accordance with
septic system repair proposal dated 1013
work within the 200 foot up area.
>> Yep, that one's when was that done? Um,
that was like in November, I think. Did
that. So, the bigger thing is just
hopefully the grass will grow. I thought
actually I went over there to look and
the owner was there kind of told him to
keep an eye. They have all the silk
fence and the hay bale still.
>> Um cuz Yeah, it's likely that it'll just
be kind of dirt until spring. So
>> they seated it already.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> But it's kind of late.
>> Yeah.
>> Um we'll have to keep an eye on that to
make sure not too many erosion problems.
But it was kind of one of those like the
thing like barely fit in the lot. So
>> yeah, I was gonna say but
>> wasn't much room for anything.
>> So yeah. So that that one um there was
another one that came in after
um the agenda is uh 280 Route 6. That
was actually I think I probably brought
that up in a
previous meeting. That was a violation.
and they clear cut the area without a
permit. And um
>> Oh, that's the one that corner.
>> Yeah. And I met with him and we um
decided to do plantings in the river
area kind of make a barrier so it's like
a natural, you know, like I plant pine
trees and then let the rest of it grow
in. So
>> they clear in the wetlands.
>> Huh?
>> PL in the wetlands.
>> No. No. One reviewer.
>> Yeah.
But so yeah, so he finally got because
we had to work with uh zoning and stuff
and so we he finally got his application
together for that. So that's online if
you wanted to take a look, but it has
the um plantings there and everything.
>> The application is to zoning or to run
>> to
>> for Yeah. for work in the upload review
area.
>> So you'll be approving that.
>> Yeah. Okay.
>> Yeah. Which house is that?
>> 280 Route 6. So it's um
it was Scott's
house. It's like right across the street
from there. There was an old
subdivision, like a three lot
subdivision. And this is the last one.
It's like closest to the road.
You can see it good if you're going if
you're heading um west from here.
>> Are they building? I mean, it
>> it's clear. Yeah, I know it's clear, but
I mean,
>> well, he's got to um he's got to get
through there. He's trying to do a
multif family thing, so he needs permit
from zoning.
So, he's got to do that, but he's got to
get the wetlands approval first. Yeah.
>> Is it residential or
>> business?
>> So, how does the new law come into play
there?
>> See, what's the question? This is not
really a well-known topic, but the new
state law that was passed that I have
very rudimentary understanding of
seem to read as though if it's a
proposal for affordable housing, which I
think a multif family, you know, would
fall under in a commercially zoned law,
it can basically kind of just overrule
local zoning and get approved.
So the issue on that particular lot is
back when the subdivision was created
and again records are very sketchy
but a subdivision was approved
in a business zone
which is contrary to our regulations
>> but it was approved nonetheless. Why it
was approved? Can't figure that part
out. I think it was approved in error,
but it know it's an approved lot. Even
if it's in the business, which you know,
our regulations today say, you know, you
can't do that uh unless it's there's no
other viable use for the the property
essentially. And uh so uh they've got a
right to build proof subdivision lot.
shouldn't shouldn't have been probably,
but I can't speak to that.
>> If it were to come to us today for
subdivision, we would probably we would
disapprove it because it's not not
allowed.
>> Yep. So, what else did I have? Oh, a
couple other things. I had um complaint
from 135 Shotty Mill Road. Um,
and I took it's like right before the
transfer station. It's actually similar
to the the one with the church. I think
it was like a tree company that was
dumping wood chips over side of the hill
and there's a brook down in the bottom
of the ravine and stuff. It doesn't look
like anything's gotten into the brook,
but I sent him a letter. Uh, it got
mailed out today actually. Um, so
>> the owner of the property is dumping or
>> I I don't know. I'm not sure. He had a
tree service come truck there. So
>> he worked I think he worked for a tree
service.
>> So he got to bring the equipment home,
let his kids ride around on it.
>> It's kind of weird.
>> What are we going to do with these
chips? any.
>> And then another thing, talked to Jed a
little bit about it, but we we took the
um archived applications off of the
website for now because we were getting
um these scams. It's been going around
in Massachusetts and Connecticut lately
where they'll use like AI to harvest
information from like public hearings
and anything that's online. They put
that they put these like really detailed
fee requests. So somebody will go
through a public hearing and then
they'll email them from like
andoverct.a.com
USA.com and they'll be like it'll be
like like the one had Wayne the agent's
name on it and it had all these
different things that
>> they had to do and it's really specific
because they have information like oh
based on this plan revision and it's
like the one that's on file
this and it's
>> like they they ask for
$4,800. I think that's like the common
thing.
>> Wow. which I think if they lowered that
probably be were convincing but I said
don't know end of her well
>> yeah but they're uh you know we kind of
tried to because we got a few of them
last like two of them last week and then
one this week so we had to kind of try
to figure out what to do
>> like people coming to you complaining or
they were
>> they received those from you know
>> but did that I mean did they realize
they were scammed yeah luckily yeah
but so We talked to the trooper. I
talked to Jim, the interim manager.
I
for our applications, I redacted the
email addresses cuz I thought that was
like the main point of contact. So,
>> Oh, I didn't notice that. Okay. Explains
that cuz I was curious about that.
>> So, I was going to do that with all of
them going forward and then I was going
to go back and do that with the archive
ones and put them back up, but just now
we just kind of like hid the page for
now. So,
>> is there a way to put a notice out to
the town? I know not all applicants are
necessarily town residents.
>> Yeah, we put I put one on our website
like when you go on the wetlands page,
it's right there. Um, and then we talked
to Roberta and she was going to do
something with the alert that text
message phone call thing.
>> Um,
reviews on that. I think I get some of
them, but it seems like it's not
consistent. People getting
>> alerts.
The community newsletter might be
another one to just put kind of a note
in.
>> Yeah. Facebook pages,
>> whatever. She was talking about some of
those.
>> But you figure if enough people know
about it, then maybe they can, you know,
somebody's like, "Oh, the town's trying
to turn. Oh, that's a scam." You know,
and then, you know, hopefully it'll get
more common.
>> And I think you're right. I mean, if
they're asking for $4,000, most people
if they, you know, get a bill of that
size that they're not expecting, I would
certainly call. Um,
>> I know if they did $50, it would be more
>> But then they would probably pay it and
then they would probably never you
probably never, you know,
>> but that's what I'm saying. The scammers
would make out better if they lowered
the price.
>> So, yeah. So, there's that. So hopefully
I can get the archive ones back up
because it's nice to be able to review
the old
stuff. So
>> I was hoping you weren't going to say,
"Oh, it's been down for two years now.
How come you didn't notice until now?"
>> No.
>> No, you noticed right away.
>> Okay.
>> Cuz I knew. Yeah.
>> Do we have a car riding policy? Like I
mean at some point we probably don't
want to keep things.
>> Yeah. There hasn't been any anything.
>> So before you remove stuff, like what
was the oldest?
>> It's basically been since I started
here. It was just we put them online and
then it just kind of kept going.
>> Yeah. Like 2023 or so was probably the
first that we started doing that.
>> It was earlier than that. I think there
was like 21 or 20 or
>> Yeah.
>> because the gravel pits out of there.
We've been wrestling with that for a
long time.
>> Yeah. I think I No, I had I stepped down
in the middle of the pandemic. Uh
and I think we were doing it before that
Amanda had started it. So, but anyway,
it might be something to think about
like do we want, you know, I know this
dated seven years seems arbitrary, but
you know, seven years we things are less
to, you know, be
>> Yeah, there's there's still on the sh
there's a shared
>> building department file, the one I
tried to send you, but it's like it
wouldn't I don't know cuz it's a
Microsoft thing and it wasn't compatible
or something, but they're all like
everything that's on the website is on
there and in the paper folder.
>> So,
>> and um I don't know, we're still
pursuing town website or website revamp.
Um but that might be a time to think
about it too is
>> especially if we're moving to a new
system, you know, what do we want to
transfer versus
>> declare, you know, outdated. But
>> yeah, figure out some other way to store
it.
>> Yeah. This question for another day.
We're fully staffed again.
>> Yeah. Have you heard anything yet from
the Rockefellers on what they're going
to do on Lake Road or Lakeside Drive
rather?
>> Not yet.
>> Okay.
>> I don't know if they're waiting after
the holidays or if they're getting
somebody to work on it. I know we were
talking because they have to do the
nutrient allocation.
>> Yep.
>> And we're trying to
um there's a pipe that goes like
directly into the lake, the drainage
pipe. We're trying to figure out a way
to not have that anymore. So, I think
that's going to be like the hangup. And
I was trying to get it so that the
whatever we do for the nutrient
allocation worksheet is going to be
what's presented to wetlands. So, I
don't know, but
might take a little while.
>> Are they expanding?
>> So,
they own two lots over there.
>> Okay.
>> And so, they've got a little house next
to them. We're planning on tearing down
a little house. Okay.
>> Expanding their house and then putting a
a workshop over there on the other side
of the garage.
>> Okay.
>> So,
>> I was saying the main the daughter is my
son's age, so rented it on that.
>> That's true.
>> And I couldn't imagine doing too much
more on that lot. But that makes sense
if there's a mother involved.
>> That little house is kind of close to
the lake. I'll live there.
>> Yeah. Very late. So maybe it's not a bad
thing that that's being taken out of
there. I do you know if he's going to
take it apart and keep it or I don't
know. Yeah.
>> Yeah. It's a beautiful little house.
>> It is a nice lake house. It's just too
bad you just couldn't pick it up and put
it somewhere better.
>> They got like sell it for a dollar or
something.
>> Yeah.
>> All right. Sorry about that. Is there
any further discussion for current
application for 5-14?
>> No.
>> Okay. Can I get a motion to approve
current application 25-14?
>> Oh, that's that was already done.
>> Oh, we that's
>> Oh, you approved that. Okay. Right.
>> That
So that's it, right?
>> Yeah. That was the end of the report.
Oh, okay. All right.
So then the only thing is other business
proposal to move 2026 regular meeting
dates the first Tuesday of every month.
Review and update by change dates.
>> Any of those dates show uh move because
of holidays or anything straight first
Tuesday.
>> Unless I missed something, it was all
the same. And like you said with the
election day
>> Yeah.
>> Wally had said that there they should be
over there by then. So we should have
this room.
>> Okay. Yeah.
>> Or vice versa meet there.
>> Yeah. But I think they're going to
they're trying to like move all their
specialized network or something. They
have to move like some secure network
over there.
>> Yeah. And thank you all for considering.
I find Mondays to just be generic, but
>> I think it'll work better.
>> Yeah, I like to sleep
into the week.
>> Yeah, Monday's a little jarring as it
is, let alone adding a a 7:00 meeting.
But, um, I will make a motion to approve
the 2026
uh regular meeting dates as proposed.
>> I'll second. All those in favor?
>> I oppos.
Okay. All pass.
So, the next regular meeting is going to
be Tuesday, January 6th, 2026 at 7 p.m.
>> All those in favor? I
>> I
motion to adjourn is a long meeting
today. take very long.
>> Yeah, I know. Especially compared to the
9 minutes.
>> Yeah, I knew you wouldn't be able to
break that four minute.
>> Yeah,
>> four minutes. Four minutes. It was
quick.
>> Before that, I think was 10 minutes.
>> Yeah. Yeah. We said I'll never break
that.
>> Sorry, it's me.